---
layout: post
title:  "Syllabus"
author: Justine
permalink: /posts/syllabus/
---

<blockquote>
  <p><i>If you think math is hard, try web design.</i></p>
  <p>- Trish Parr</p>
</blockquote>


## Course Overview

This course is intended to make you comfortable with presenting yourself through the web. In addition, you will learn skills that should allow you to build, manage, and develop websites.

We will start with an overview of technologies used for web development. This will be followed by an in-depth presentation of HTML and CSS, and will conclude by exploring responsive web design, site frameworks, and site management solutions.

This is exclusively an on-line course. As such, you will be expected to engage with all content through this main site. You will be assessed through regular project-based assignments, writings, and community engagement. The course will conclude with a final build (personal website) which will need to utilize all knowledge gained throughout the semester.



<hr>



## Materials

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">
  <li class="active"><a href="#step1" data-toggle="tab">Repositories</a></li>
  <li><a href="#step2" data-toggle="tab">Textbooks</a></li>
  <li><a href="#step3" data-toggle="tab">Subscriptions and Services</a></li>
</ul>
<div id="myTabContent" class="tab-content">
  <div class="tab-pane fade active in" id="step1">
    <p>There are three main destinations you should bookmark:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="https://moodle.umt.edu" target="_blank">Moodle</a>: You will submit and share your homework and review your grades via Moodle. Assignments, Projects, and Workshop requirments will all be provided here.</li>
        <li><a href="{{ site.url }}" target="_blank">Course Main Website</a>: Where all your learning materials are hosted, like an online textbook.</li>
        <li><a href="https://github.com/Media-Ed-Online/intro-web-dev-resources/issues" target="_blank">GitHub Resources Repo</a>: Location for homework examples and the required Issues board.</li>
      </ul>
  </div>
  <div class="tab-pane fade" id="step2">
    <ul>
      <li>Required: <a href="http://www.htmlandcssbook.com/" target="_blank"><cite>HTML & CSS</cite></a> by John Duckett (More information available on Moodle)</li>
      <li>Optional: <a href="https://www.amazon.com/HTML5-Running-Dive-Future-Development/dp/0596806027" target="_blank"><cite>HTML5: Up & Running,</cite></a> a community-sourced book of information on HTML5.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
  <div class="tab-pane fade" id="step3">
    <p>You'll need a few applications to help you on your development journey, and well as a place to host it all. All of these services are free.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Browser(s): You need the most up-to-date version of Safari, Chrome, and/or Firefox (etc).</li>
      <li><a href="https://atom.io/" target="_blank">Atom Editor</a>: Atom is a great versatile text editor (although you may use another if you prefer).</li>
      <li><a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank">GitHub Account</a>: You will be expected to maintain a github.io repository and website via GitHub where you will post your weekly homework assignments.</li>
      <li><a href="https://desktop.github.com/" target="_blank">GitHub Desktop App</a>: We will be using Git, a free and open-source distributed version control system. This should already be installed on your computer. We recommend this GUI-based front-end application for ease-of-use, although you can push directly through Terminal or Command Line if preferred.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>



<hr>



## Content
Over the course of the semester we will focus on three major web languages: **HTML5** and creating structure in websites; **CSS3** and adding style; and **Markdown**, the light-weight language used in documentation.

### Outline
- Project 1: Introduction to Technologies
  - Development Environment
  - Text Editors
  - Browsers
  - Git Version Control
  - Markdown
  - Setting Up Your Git Repository and Live Site

- Project 2: HTML5
  - HTML5
  - Viewing Source Code, Snooping
  - The index.html
  - Self-hosted vs. Streaming File Storage
  - Debugging

- Project 3: CSS3
  - CSSS
  - Typography
  - Normal & Pseudo States
  - Box Models

- Project 4: Layout & Performance
  - Responsive Web Design
  - Mobile-First Web Design
  - Tracking Analytics and SEO
  - Web Accessibility Standards



<hr>



## Homework

All homework will be submitted on Moodle under specific assignment forums. You will submit links to your code sketch and technical reports/readme.md files (both hosted via your GitHub repository) for every assignment.

Your homework will be assessed by the instructor and teaching assistants and recorded in Moodle.

### Evaluation

#### Goals

We will have weekly assignments that are relevant to material from the previous class. These assignments build on each other and culminate in a multi-page project at the end of the module.

#### Reports (AKA README files)

You will need to talk about your assignment processes in your technical reports. It is expected that everyone in the class will create and maintain a GitHub repository for their assignments, and you will do this in a readme.md, written in Markdown.

#### Participation

This class will be participatory, and you are required to take part in discussions and give feedback to other students through online participation and project Workshops.

#### Practice

This course will culminate with full site builds. You are expected to push your abilities to produce something that utilizes what you have learned in the class that is useful in some manner to yourself or the world.

### Assessment Guidelines

Grades for all assignments will be based primarily on the student’s ability to:
- Demonstrate an understanding of the specific characteristics and integrative capabilities of the assigned topic in your own words and code.
- Articulate a clear and concise perspective. Cutting and pasting or copying word-for-word off the Internet will result in loss of points.
- Present an organized file/program, as well as technical report; including proper and punctual delivery of the assignment files.
- Demonstrate creativity beyond the expected technical requirements.



## Grading

This course's points are broken up into 3 primary areas:

### Homework (50%)

<div class="progress">
  <div class="progress-bar progress-bar-striped progress-bar-success active" role="progressbar" aria-valuenow="50" aria-valuemin="0" aria-valuemax="100" style="width: 50%">
    <span class="sr-only">50% Complete</span>
  </div>
</div>

These are the major coding requirements, usually single pages that contribute to your understanding of web design as a whole. Primarily, homework assignments consist of finding and fixing problems to provided websites, although you may be asked to create new files from time-to-time.

### Projects and Workshops (40%)
<div class="progress">
  <div class="progress-bar progress-bar-striped progress-bar-info active" role="progressbar" aria-valuenow="40" aria-valuemin="0" aria-valuemax="100" style="width: 40%">
    <span class="sr-only">40% Complete</span>
  </div>
</div>

In contrast, Projects will be largely open-ended. You will be given a set list of tasks or inclusions, but the overall site design will be up to you. Workshops area two-part peer review process. You will submit your Project to its Workshop to be reviewed by your peers. After the submission phase, you will be delegated 2-3 other classmate's sites to review in turn. You are graded both on the project and your educated comments in these reviews.

### Participation/Attendence (10%)

<div class="progress">
  <div class="progress-bar progress-bar-striped progress-bar-warning active" role="progressbar" aria-valuenow="10" aria-valuemin="0" aria-valuemax="100" style="width: 10%">
    <span class="sr-only">10% Complete</span>
  </div>
</div>

This is a large class. It is imperative that students help each other as they learn these robust languages. Therefore, you are required to participate in the GitHub Issues board, in one of these capacities:
- Asking Questions: Wonder why your code isn't working? Ask here first!
- Answer Questions: Are you wiz? Help your classmates!
- Sharing Resources: Don't really need help, but like researching? Share interesting finds from the world wide web!
- Sharing Experiences: Is an assignment particularly troublesome but you finally figured out why? Tell us about it!

### Late Work

Homework can be accepted up to 7 days late, with a 50% reduction.

<p><span class="label label-danger">Note:</span> Workshop (peer review) deadlines are automatically switched-over by the system. Once they pass, you're locked out. Missing a submission deadline means you will not be able to participate, and will receive a 0 for that Workshop. We physically cannot reopen Workshops.</p>

No late submissions can be accepted to Workshops.


### Scoring

Grading breakdown is as follows:

<table class="table table-striped table-hover ">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Grade</th>
      <th>Points</th>
      <th>Percent</th>
      <th>Transcript</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>A</td>
      <td>1860 - 2000</td>
      <td>93% and Above</td>
      <td>4.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>A-</td>
      <td>1800 - 1859</td>
      <td>90 - 92%</td>
      <td>3.7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>B+</td>
      <td>1740 - 1799</td>
      <td>87 - 89%</td>
      <td>3.3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>B</td>
      <td>1660 - 1739</td>
      <td>83 - 86%</td>
      <td>3.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>B-</td>
      <td>1600 - 1659</td>
      <td>80 - 82%</td>
      <td>2.7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>C+</td>
      <td>1540 - 1599</td>
      <td>77 - 79%</td>
      <td>2.3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>C</td>
      <td>1460 - 1539</td>
      <td>73 - 76%</td>
      <td>2.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>C-</td>
      <td>1400 - 1459</td>
      <td>70 - 72%</td>
      <td>1.7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>D+</td>
      <td>1340 - 1399</td>
      <td>67 - 69%</td>
      <td>1.3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>D</td>
      <td>1260 - 1339</td>
      <td>63 - 66%</td>
      <td>1.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>D-</td>
      <td>1200 - 1259</td>
      <td>60 - 62%</td>
      <td>0.7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>F</td>
      <td>0000 - 1199</td>
      <td>59% and Below</td>
      <td>0.0</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>



<hr>



<i>All students must practice academic honesty. Academic misconduct is subject to an academic penalty by the course instructor and/or a disciplinary sanction by the University. All students need to be familiar with the Student Conduct Code. The Code is available for review online at <a href="http://www.umt.edu/vpesa/Dean of Students/default.php" target="_blank">http://www.umt.edu/vpesa/Dean of Students/default.php</a>.</i>
